# XXXX Coaching App

---

This is a coaching app which allows 4 types of users: trainees, coaches, managers and HR.

Trainees can view and edit skills and ask each other for 360 feedback.

Coaches can also view and edit the skills of their trainees and invite them to evaluation meetings.

Managers can only view the skills of their subordinates, without editing them, and can also invite them to evaluation meetings.

HR people can view all people and edit their personal details, and can also add new people.

The frontend is made in React, and the backend in Spring Boot and MySQL.

## Installation instructions

In order to run the project in a development environment the way we did, first make sure you have the following programs installed:

- XAMPP (to run the MySQL server of the backend)
- Node.js (to run the frontend)
- npm (package manager for Node.js)
- IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition (because it's free and comes with built-in Maven support)
- Visual Studio Code (not required but much nicer than IntelliJ for editing .jsx files in my opinion)

Once you have it all installed and cloned the repository, open the folder **swdn-frontend** in a terminal of your choice, then run the command `npm install` to install all the required npm packages.

Also start up XAMPP, and make sure MySQL is running.

Go to https://localhost/phpmyadmin and create a database called _coachingapp_. No need to put anything in there, but the database must exist.

Meanwhile, open the **swdn** folder in IntelliJ. It should automatically install the required Maven dependencies.

Go to `src/main/resources/application.properties` and open it in IntelliJ. Make sure the port that XAMPP shows for MySQL is the same as the one included in `spring.datasource.url`.

If you have your own SMTP service you'd like to use for this, put the required details in there. If you're using our SMTP, open up the environment variables and type in `EMAIL_PASSWORD=`the password that we will give you personally.

## Running the program

In order to run the program, first start up XAMPP and make sure Apache and MySQL are running.

Then open up the **swdn** folder in IntelliJ, like before. Run the file `SwdnApplication.java` from the `src/main/java/com/itvitae/swdn` folder. This will start up the backend.

Open up the **swdn-frontend** folder in a terminal of your choice, and use the command `npm run dev` to start up a development version of the frontend.

Go to `localhost:`(the port specified in the terminal) using your favorite web browser, and you should see a button to take you to the login screen. From there, refer to the user manual.

## First time running the program

If it is your first time running the program, you will have only one user, pre-generated by the program: a HR employee named Admin.

The login credentials for Admin are:

- email: `admin@admin.nl`
- password: `admin`

Once you're logged in as Admin, change the password to something more secure, and create all the users that you need. New users will have the standard password `password` and are strongly advised to change it after logging in for the first time.

## Credits

Made by Bas Ruijs, Menno Muller and Thomas Mouthaan
